[ES|QL] Add doc for the COMPLETION command (#131010)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/query-languages/esql/_snippets/commands/layout/completion.md

## `COMPLETION` [esql-completion]

```yaml {applies_to}
serverless: preview
stack: preview 9.1.0
```

The `COMPLETION` command allows you to send prompts and context to a Large Language Model (LLM) directly within your ES|QL queries, to perform text generation tasks.

**Syntax**

```esql
COMPLETION [column =] prompt WITH inference_id
```

**Parameters**

`column`
:   (Optional) The name of the output column containing the LLM's response.
    If not specified, the results will be stored in a column named `completion`.
    If the specified column already exists, it will be overwritten with the new results.

`prompt`
:   The input text or expression used to prompt the LLM.
    This can be a string literal or a reference to a column containing text.

`inference_id`

> :   The ID of the [inference endpoint](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/inference-api) to use for the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   The ID of the [inference endpoint](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/inference-api.md) to use for the task.
```

🙈

Reviewer: this will fix docs build

    The inference endpoint must be configured with the `completion` task type.

**Description**

The `COMPLETION`  command provides a general-purpose interface for
text generation tasks using a Large Language Model (LLM) in ES|QL.

`COMPLETION` supports a wide range of text generation tasks. Depending on your
prompt and the model you use, you can perform arbitrary text generation tasks
including:

- Question answering
- Summarization
- Translation
- Content rewriting
- Creative generation

The command works with any LLM deployed to
the [Elasticsearch inference API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-inference-put)
and can be chained with other ES|QL commands for further processing.

**Examples**

> Using default column name (results stored in `completion` column):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the default column name (results stored in `completion` column):
```

```esql
ROW question = "What is Elasticsearch?"
| COMPLETION question WITH test_completion_model
| KEEP question, completion
```

| question:keyword       | completion:keyword                        |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| What is Elasticsearch? | A distributed search and analytics engine |

> Specifying the output column (results stored in `answer` column):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the output column (results stored in `answer` column):
```

```esql
ROW question = "What is Elasticsearch?"
| COMPLETION answer = question WITH test_completion_model
| KEEP question, answer
```

| question:keyword | answer:keyword |
| --- | --- |
| What is Elasticsearch? | A distributed search and analytics engine |

> Summarizing the top 10 highest-rated movies using a prompt:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Summarize the top 10 highest-rated movies using a prompt:
```

## `COMPLETION` [esql-completion]

```yaml {applies_to}
serverless: preview
stack: preview 9.1.0
```

> `COMPLETION` provides a general-purpose interface for text generation using a Large Language Model (LLM) in ES|QL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `COMPLETION` command allows you to send prompts and context to a Large Language Model (LLM) directly within your ES|QL queries to perform text generation tasks.
```

Reviewer: This is my only real edit, to provide a more user-friendly explanation of the command at the outset :)

**Syntax**

```esql
COMPLETION [column =] prompt WITH inference_id
```

**Parameters**

`column`

> :   (Optional) The name of the output column that will contain the completion results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   (Optional) The name of the output column containing the LLM's response.
```

    If not specified, the results will be stored in a column named `completion`.

>     If the specified column already exists, it will be overwritten with the new completion results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the specified column already exists, it will be overwritten with the new results.
```

`prompt`

> :   The input text or expression that will be used as the prompt for the completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   The input text or expression used to prompt the LLM.
```

    This can be a string literal or a reference to a column containing text.

`inference_id`

> :   The ID of the inference endpoint to use for text completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   The ID of the [inference endpoint](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/inference-api) to use for the task.
```

    The inference endpoint must be configured with the `completion` task type.

**Description**

The `COMPLETION`  command provides a general-purpose interface for

> text generation using a Large Language Model (LLM) in ES|QL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
text generation tasks using a Large Language Model (LLM) in ES|QL.
```

> `COMPLETION`supports a wide range of text generation tasks. Depending on your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`COMPLETION` supports a wide range of text generation tasks. Depending on your
```

> prompt and the model you use, you can perform arbitrary text generation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prompt and the model you use, you can perform arbitrary text generation tasks
```

including:

- Question answering
- Summarization
- Translation
- Content rewriting
- Creative generation

> - ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The command works with any LLM deployed to

Reviewer: Should this be a **Requirements** section, because you need to set up an inference endpoint? Or do we use the Elastic LLM by default here? If so we should mention that.

## `COMPLETION` [esql-completion]

```yaml {applies_to}
serverless: preview
stack: preview 9.1.0
```

The `COMPLETION` command allows you to send prompts and context to a Large Language Model (LLM) directly within your ES|QL queries, to perform text generation tasks.

**Syntax**

```esql
COMPLETION [column =] prompt WITH inference_id
```

**Parameters**

`column`
:   (Optional) The name of the output column containing the LLM's response.
    If not specified, the results will be stored in a column named `completion`.
    If the specified column already exists, it will be overwritten with the new results.

`prompt`
:   The input text or expression used to prompt the LLM.
    This can be a string literal or a reference to a column containing text.

`inference_id`

> :   The ID of the [inference endpoint](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/inference-api) to use for the task.

Author: ```suggestion
: The ID of the [inference endpoint](docs-content://explore-analyze/elastic-inference/inference-api.md) to use for the task.

:   The ID of the inference endpoint to use for text completion.
    The inference endpoint must be configured with the `completion` task type.

**Description**

The `COMPLETION` processing command provides a general-purpose interface for
text generation using a Large Language Model (LLM) in ES|QL.

`COMPLETION`supports a wide range of text generation tasks. Depending on your
prompt and the model you use, you can perform arbitrary text generation,
including:

- Question answering
- Summarization
- Translation
- Content rewriting
- Creative generation
- ...

The command works with any LLM deployed to
the [Elasticsearch inference API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-inference-put)

> and can be chained with other ES|QL commands for further processing.

Author: I have completely rewritten the command description to emphasize it's multi-purpose LLM based text generation capabilities. Is it better for you?

## `COMPLETION` [esql-completion]

```yaml {applies_to}
serverless: preview
stack: preview 9.1.0
```

The `COMPLETION` processing command generates text completions using a specified LLM (Large Language Model).

**Syntax**

```esql
COMPLETION [column =] prompt WITH inference_id
```

**Parameters**

`column`
:   (Optional) The name of the output column that will contain the completion results.

>     If not specified, the results will be stored in a column named `completion`.

Author: Updated the examples so it include one with the defaults.
